# Chapter 8. Vendor Considerations and Landscape

-   **[Vendor Selection Approach](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev1sec1 "Vendor Selection Approach") 128**
    
    -   **[Best-of-Breed](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec1 "Best-of-Breed") 128**
        
    -   **[One-Stop-Shop](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec2 "One-Stop-Shop") 129**
        
    -   **[Trusted Advisor](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec3 "Trusted Advisor") 130**
        
    
-   **[Vendor Comparison Criteria](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev1sec2 "Vendor Comparison Criteria") 131**
    
-   **[Vendor Categories](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev1sec3 "Vendor Categories") 133**
    
    -   **[Tag and Reader Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec4 "Tag and Reader Vendors") 133**
        
    -   **[RFID Middleware Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec5 "RFID Middleware Vendors") 133**
        
    -   **[Computer Systems Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec6 "Computer Systems Vendors") 134**
        
    -   **[Application Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec7 "Application Vendors") 134**
        
    -   **[Systems Integration Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec8 "Systems Integration Vendors") 135**
        
    -   **[Value Added Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec9 "Value Added Vendors") 135**
        
    -   **[Specialty Services Vendors](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev2sec10 "Specialty Services Vendors") 135**
        
    
-   **[Vendor Guide](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev1sec4 "Vendor Guide") 136**
    
-   **[Summary](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch08.html#ch08lev1sec5 "Summary") 136**
    

**Five Questions This Chapter Will Answer**

-   How should I evaluate the capabilities of various vendors?
    
-   How do I select a trusted advisor for the RFID project I am considering?
    
-   How can I accelerate the implementation and deployment of my RFID project?
    
-   What is the role of computer systems vendors in RFID projects?
    
-   Where can I find a comprehensive RFID vendor list?
    

In this chapter, we conclude the framework we started in [Chapter 5](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch05.html "Chapter 5. Framework for Deployment"), “[Framework for Deployment](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch05.html "Chapter 5. Framework for Deployment"),” to show you how to deploy RFID in your enterprise and what factors to consider. The vendor selection process is the last element of the framework for which we provide details. Proper vendor selection often makes the difference between a successful project and a failed one. For an RFID project, this is especially true because its usage is relatively new in areas such as supply chain. In this situation, selection of vendors with the appropriate expertise and staying power in the RFID field is critical. These vendors play a major role in helping you design, implement, and manage solutions with only a small set of industry-wide references, best practices, and case studies as aids. They must rely heavily on their own skills, expertise, and resources. They must also possess creative and intuitive skills to help overcome those issues and problems that may present themselves for the first time.

In this chapter, we provide the following:

-   A set of guidelines on what you need to consider in your vendor selection process
    
-   Comparison criteria to help differentiate between various vendors
    
-   A pointer to the latest RFID vendor landscape with detailed and categorized lists of key vendors and their capabilities and offerings
    

# Vendor Selection Approach

In [Chapter 5](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch05.html "Chapter 5. Framework for Deployment"), we outlined the framework needed to embark on an RFID solution implementation and deployment. In the _Build and Deploy_ phase of the framework, we presented the need for appropriate vendor selection. In this section, we discuss three major approaches to vendor selection.

## Best-of-Breed

The Best-of-Breed approach involves selection of the _best vendor_ for each specific portion of an RFID project. For example, you can select the best vendor of tags and readers, select another vendor that is best at installing and testing, and select yet another vendor that is best qualified to do application integration or training within your enterprise. The choice of which vendor is the best often depends on the specific application and industry. For example, a particular vendor may offer the best high frequency (HF) tags and readers for rugged environments in factory floor automation applications. The same vendor may not be the best choice for UHF tags and readers for inventory management applications in a packaged goods warehouse.

The Best-of-Breed approach implies that you are in control and manage all aspects of the project in-house.

### Top Three Advantages

-   Ability to meet the requirements of the project as specified
    
-   Higher chance of a successful project outcome
    
-   More flexibility in substituting another vendor if one does not work out as planned
    

### Top Three Drawbacks

-   In-house project management function may drain already scarce resources
    
-   Lack of in-house expertise may lead to inappropriate or incorrect vendor choices
    
-   Integrating multiple vendors’ products may escalate the cost of the overall project
    

## One-Stop-Shop

The One-Stop-Shop approach approach requires the selection of one single vendor to act as the _primary contractor_ vendor for the RFID project. In this case, the primary contractor often manages the entire lifecycle of the project from design and planning to deployment and maintenance. This usually means that a single vendor is responsible for all phases of the project and takes responsibility for selecting subsequent vendors (sub-contractors) if it cannot fulfill certain aspects of the project on its own. For example, if the primary contractor is a systems integrator, it is likely to rely on an RFID hardware vendor to select the type of tags and readers most suitable for the project.

The One-Stop-Shop approach means one vendor is primarily in control, manages all aspects of the project, and takes responsibility for the overall outcome of the project.

### Top Three Advantages

-   Single point of contact responsible and accountable for all aspects of the project (a.k.a. one throat to choke)
    
-   More in-house resources available to focus on business-related aspects of the project such as setting up success metrics, return on investment (ROI) analysis, and stakeholder buy-in
    
-   Faster time-to-deployment as project is less dependent on in-house resource and skills constraints
    

### Top Three Drawbacks

-   Single point of contact may result in expensive “project restart” in case of a failure
    
-   More complex upgrade/maintenance path due to lack of visibility in details of the project
    
-   Shortfall in required functionality due to inadequate vendor expertise, experience, or focus
    

## Trusted Advisor

The Trusted Advisor approach is a hybrid version of Best-of-Breed and One-Stop-Shop. This approach requires you to maintain the overall project management responsibility in-house and hire a vendor to act as a trusted advisor. This trusted advisor helps you with your vendor selection in an objective manner. In this scenario, a trusted advisor often directly helps with certain aspects of project implementation. For example, if the trusted advisor is a systems vendor, it should be fully capable of architecting the project and deploying both the hardware and software related to the project. For RFID projects in particular, this approach is often the most sensible one. First, due to the fast evolving technological advances, it is much harder for a business implementing an RFID project to keep up with the most recent vendor offerings. A trusted advisor’s primary responsibility is to continue to enrich its knowledge base and is more likely to always know the “latest” and the “greatest.” Second, a trusted advisor is likely to have a more objective view of other vendors and is not likely to be “tied” to any particular set of vendors.

The Trusted Advisor approach means you are primarily in control and manage most aspects of the project in-house. This approach can often maximize the advantages, and minimize the drawbacks of the other two approaches discussed earlier. However, the Trusted Advisor approach may require more out-of-pocket cost than the other two, as you need to spend extra money to hire this trusted advisor. Over the long term, this up-front cost is compensated by a better project outcome—one that provides the most robust design with minimal risk.

# Vendor Comparison Criteria

After you have agreed upon the preceding vendor selection approach, you are ready to compare competing vendors. The following criteria will help you make the appropriate choices. Note that we include certain “generic” criteria along with those specific to RFID deployment to make the comparison more meaningful for you.

-   ****Vital Statistics:**** This includes number of employees, recent revenue/profitability figures, geographical reach, and the number of customers. Although these metrics should not be the only determinant, they provide a good health check. In fact, for a fast evolving technology like RFID, small start-up companies with few employees and few customers are nimble and adaptive and are likely to possess the very skills that may not be available at larger, more mainstream companies.
    
-   ****The Management Team:**** This provides insight into the overall expertise of the vendor. Particularly with smaller vendors, it is important to have a management team that has a solid history of industry experience and expertise, and a demonstrated capability to lead and manage its staff effectively.
    
-   ****Customer References:**** Although the number and brand name of the references are important, it is more important to determine if these references have deployed projects similar to the ones you are contemplating. The reference should also confirm a track record of high-quality work, on time and within budget.
    
-   ****Experience in RFID Technology:**** This criterion is important to consider if you believe that RFID experience is critical to the particular phase of the project for which you are considering the vendor. For example, if you are looking at a consulting firm to help your organization implement change management processes, it is more important to find a firm that has experience in change and process management rather than in RFID-specific technology. On the other hand, if you are looking at a vendor to help with a new IT architecture design across your enterprise, it is best to look for a vendor that has adequate RFID architecture design experience, rather than a vendor with a solid history of IT architecture design but only small amount of RFID design experience.
    
-   ****Experience in Your Industry:**** This criterion is important regardless of the particular phase of the project for which you are considering the vendor. You want to make sure that the vendor has adequate experience and expertise in _your_ particular industry. Without this experience, a vendor is not likely to do a good job that requires taking a holistic approach to implementing a solution.
    
-   ****Intellectual Property Rights:**** Because of the great amount of innovation going on around RFID technology, it is likely that either you or the vendor will end up creating new intellectual property (IP) to implement your solution. The willingness to share your IP with the vendor will open up a new leverage point for you. For example, a consulting firm may be willing to reduce its fee in exchange for the capability to retain non-exclusive rights in the IP it creates for you. Conversely, you may be able to negotiate more attractive licensing terms with a software vendor if you agree to share the IP your engineers may cocreate (for example, a connector you build to connect your commercial warehouse management application to the vendor’s middleware). Note that this has the side effect of potentially arming your competitors with your IP because the vendor is free to reuse or resell it.
    
-   ****Partnerships and Alliances:**** A vendor’s ecosystem of partners and alliances speaks to its track record, experience, and credibility in the industry. This is particularly true with smaller vendors. Always look for vendors that have a wellknown set of partners and alliances that are willing to be used as references. At the same time, a large vendor may also need the backing of small, niche industry-credible vendors that can help fill any gaps the large vendor may have in its offerings.
    
-   ****Adherence to Standards:**** It is important to assess the importance and impact of standards for your project. For example, if you are a Wal-Mart supplier and have to comply with the EPC standards, you need to make sure that the tag vendor offers compliant and tested EPC tags.
    
-   ****Open Architecture:**** Products that offer an open architecture can save you from vendor lock-in and ease the integration efforts. This is necessary for any medium- and large-scale RFID project.
    

# Vendor Categories

Now that you have been armed with your selection criteria, you need a basic segmentation of the primary vendor categories to help you with your final selection. Note that many vendors offer solutions that fall into several of these categories.

## Tag and Reader Vendors

There is a variety of RFID tag and reader vendors in the market today. Many of these vendors have been in this business for several years, and some for a couple of decades. Whether they are large or small, they often have a successful record of accomplishment in the areas where RFID technology has been applied for quite some time—for example, livestock tracking, toll collection, access control, and factory floor automation. Many offer specialties in specific industries such as livestock. With the opportunity of applying RFID in the supply chain, many new tag and reader vendors have entered the market in the past few years. These vendors generally support EPCglobal standards and offer UHF tags and readers. Some of the older vendors have also started offering EPC-based products. Although many vendors in this category offer both tags and readers, some specialize in building tags or readers only, often for very specific markets such as rugged tags for automobile assembly applications.

## RFID Middleware Vendors

RFID middleware is generally most applicable for supply chain applications of RFID. Therefore, RFID middleware products and vendors have been around for only a few years. Prior to the entry of RFID middleware products, most functions performed by today’s middleware were customized to fit the specific needs of RFID applications. Because these applications were typically simpler to implement (compared to supply chain applications), many of the sophisticated features of today’s RFID middleware were not necessary.

RFID middleware vendors generally fall into two categories: pure play and hybrid. The pure play vendors offer RFID middleware only (see [Chapter 3](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch03.html "Chapter 3. Components of RFID Systems"), “[Components of RFID Systems](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch03.html "Chapter 3. Components of RFID Systems"),” for details about RFID middleware). The hybrid vendors have been offering enterprise IT middleware and have recently entered the RFID middleware space.

## Computer Systems Vendors

Computer systems vendors (also known as platform vendors) consist of those that offer computer hardware and/or operating system/platform software for the enterprise. They are a critical category of vendors to evaluate for all RFID projects. After all, any RFID application needs a host computer system or network with which to interact. Additionally, many systems vendors also offer enterprise IT middleware, which is often considered an integral part of the computer systems components. As discussed earlier, many enterprise IT middleware vendors have entered the RFID-specific middleware space and are successfully competing with pure play vendors. As such, some systems vendors are now offering RFID middleware as well. Because of the depth and breadth of their experience and expertise, systems vendors are also excellent candidates for the Trusted Advisor role we discussed earlier.

## Application Vendors

Certain application vendors play a critical role in RFID projects, in particular in the supply chain management applications of RFID. These vendors offer an array of software applications that control various aspects of enterprise resource planning (ERP) or supply chain management (SCM) such as inventory control, warehouse management, supply chain execution, and logistics management. RFID tag data is one source of data input to these applications. Therefore, many of the vendors are creating interfaces that allow the flow of RFID data into their software applications in a seamless manner. Depending on the nature of the RFID application (usually for small-scale and isolated deployments), the offerings from these vendors can eliminate or reduce the need for certain RFID middleware features and functionalities.

## Systems Integration Vendors

Systems Integration vendors come in two major varieties: large and small. Large systems integrators are well known in the industry and lead the way in designing, implementing, and integrating large-scale enterprise IT applications. Many have started specific RFID practices, often in targeted industries. The majority of RFID projects big enough for large systems integrators are in the supply chain management area. Smaller systems integrators make up the rest of the landscape. Note that many of the vendor types we described earlier also offer systems integration services. We also note a finer distinction between the bigger small integrators, with hundreds of employees, and the “boutique” integrators/consultants with targeted specialties and only dozens of employees.

The choice of the appropriate systems integration vendor should be guided by the applicable criteria we discussed in the previous section. Although large systems integrators can be more expensive, the smaller ones may not always have the resources to implement large-scale RFID solutions.

## Value Added Vendors

These vendors are commonly called value added resellers or VARs. VARs essentially act as a selling channel (often local or regional) for the different hardware and software vendors we described earlier. VARs add unique value to the products they resell by creating custom packaging of the original products and by providing other complimentary services such as consulting, installation, training, and integration.

## Specialty Services Vendors

These vendors provide the following critical services required for various types of RFID project implementations:

-   ****Business Consulting:**** This is an important but often overlooked service— particularly with brand new RFID implementations that require process reengineering and change management. Many systems integrators, large and small, offer business consulting services. However, certain boutique integrators that target very specific markets and applications can bring significant expertise to the table.
    
-   ****Training and Certification:**** Another overlooked but important service is RFID training and certification services. Many systems integrators as well as some of the other vendor types discussed in the previous sections offer these services.
    
-   ****Managed Services:**** Managed services vendors provide outsourcing options for IT infrastructure. In the case of RFID projects, certain enterprises may find it more beneficial to outsource various aspects of their RFID infrastructure to appropriate managed services providers.
    
-   ****Market Analysis:**** Analyst services are critical, especially because RFID continues to evolve in such a rapid fashion. Analysts provide up-to-date market research, forecasts, vendor comparisons, and surveys that help fine-tune RFID project plans to keep up with a very fast moving target.
    
-   ****Third-Party Logistics (3PL):**** 3PL providers are unique to the supply chain industry and provide outsourcing services to help manage the logistics associated with supply chain processes. The RFID labeling process at a small-or medium- sized consumer packaged goods manufacturer may benefit from being outsourced completely to a 3PL provider who receives cases and pallets, applies RFID tags on them, and ships them directly to a retail distribution center.
    

# Vendor Guide

Due to the accelerated rate of change in the RFID industry, the vendor landscape is growing and evolving rapidly, and vendor data is changing frequently. Providing a vendor guide here will no doubt be outdated by the time you read it. Instead we provide an extensive and regularly updated RFID vendor guide at this book’s companion Web site, _[www.rfidfieldguide.com](http://www.rfidfieldguide.com)_.

# Summary

This chapter concludes the explanations of the framework we laid out in [Chapter 5](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/rfid-field-guide/0131853554/ch08.html/ch05.html "Chapter 5. Framework for Deployment"). As noted, vendor selection is critical to the success of an RFID project. Based on your business environment such as resources, skill sets, and funding, you can determine the best vendor selection approach: Best-of-Breed, One-Stop-Shop or Trusted Advisor. It is equally important to compare different vendors using multiple criteria such as experience in RFID and your industry, and quality of customer references. Some vendors specialize in offering products such as tags and readers. Others may offer multiple products. Some may be pure play vendors—for example, RFID middleware vendors—whereas others might view RFID as an extension of their existing offerings. The vendor lists at _[www.rfidfieldguide.com](http://www.rfidfieldguide.com)_ provide a good starting point to help you select the right vendors for your project.

table of contents

search

settings

8\. Vendor Considerations and Landscape

queue

RFID Field Guide: Deploying Radio Frequency Identification Systems