All right. Well, we'll go ahead and jump in. We've seen a lot of people that are here and ready to go. So, hi and welcome to our RFD strategy webinar, how to plan and build a scalable RFID system. So, my name is Suzanne Gotthried from Atlas RFD and I'll be your host today. And I'm really happy to introduce you to our two featured speakers. So, our first is Michael Fine. He is a director of product management for Zebra Technologies Advanced Location Technology. Michael leads a team of product managers in overseeing a world-class portfolio of Rain RF devices and platform software. As a board member of the Rain Alliance, Michael works across the industry to promote and expand the global adoption of RAIN technology. With over 20 years of experience in the RFA industry, his career encompasses significant roles in R&D, engineering, and product management. We're glad to have you here, Michael. >> Thrilled to be here, too. Thanks for the introduction. and Steven Wood, the director of sales at Atlas RFID. Stephen is a leader in the RFD industry and has helped some of the largest companies in the world with their RFD deployments. Working sidebyside with companies in all industries on the front line has given Stephen a unique and practical perspective to add real world examples to Michael's insight on system types and scalability. All right, glad to have you, Stephen. >> Good to be here. >> All right, so great to have you guys. really excited about this topic. Since Atlas is a top tier reseller and advanced location and tracking specialist with Zebra, I think this will be really impactful for our audience today. So, just a quick few notes before we get started. The session will be recorded and available online within a week. So, check your email for that notification. Uh, please put any questions you have in the chat for our live Q&A. We have 20 minutes this time, so we're going to try and answer everything we can, but if we don't get to them, we will send you an email with the answer. If you experience any tech problems, try refreshing your browser, but we'll be monitoring the chat to see if we have any, you know, outages or system problems. Um, the educational portion again, like I said, is 40 minutes. So, we'll have the live chat for, uh, 20 and, you know, so definitely get those Q&A questions in. And remember, we have polls available on the right side of your screen. We only have four today, so not too much on you guys. So, here is a quick look at the agenda today. So, we'll do a quick RFD market overview and then we'll walk through types of RFD systems first, which will encompass learning about basic, intermediate, and advanced RFA systems. After that, we'll talk about RFD adoption and how typically typical industry use cases are getting started with RFID technology and scaling from there. So, we'll jump into then we'll jump into our 20 minute Q&A. So, remember to start sending your questions ahead of time. So before we get started, we have our three polls. So I'm going to add this one to the chat first and it is, what do you say your level of knowledge or expertise is on RFID or IoT? I'll give youall a couple seconds to answer that. Hopefully you'll be kind of around across the board today. All right. So, it looks like the majority is somewhat knowledgeable, but we have some still learning, which is great because I really do think we're going to build a a basis um in this and then just talk about scaling from there. So, that's awesome to see. So, our second question that we have is what is your primary I'm putting it up primary RFID application? And this is mostly for end users, but if you're an integrator as well, maybe an application that you're really familiar with, you can add it in here as well. Okay, great. Yeah, we usually do see a lot of inventory management and asset tracking. So, it's great to see that kind of correspond with what we thought we'd see on the webinar today. Okay, so our last one for now is, do you currently have an RFID system deployed or in use? Right. I like to see that 31 people say yes, I do. That's awesome. We will help you scale it on this webinar hopefully. All right. Well, thank you guys so much for the polls. Um I know you're ready to get right in. So, let's let's jump right in. Um so, let's look take a quick look at the RFD market growth and Zebra's portfolio. Michael, do you mind kicking us off today? >> Sure. Uh thanks for the opportunity and um I'm going to cover the first few slides here about a little bit of a history of kind of the space and the technology and how we got here and then some of the growth factors and some of the reasons we're seeing RFID growing today and and where. So good afternoon, good evening to all of you. I was impressed. I saw some kind of saw some folks from Europe and South America. So welcome everybody. Um hopefully this is an informative session and we'll uh we'll try to keep our comments um kind of on on time here to uh to leave plenty of time for Q&A. So I'm not going to read every word on this slide, but the the the point of this or what we wanted to to convey to everybody is just this is not a new technology, right? the RFID or or in this case the the type of RFID we're talking about or we're going to be talking about today is UHF RFID or um more commonly called now RAIN RFID or or even Gen 2 V2 or EPC RFID but it's a type of technology that has characteristics of very lowcost tags so tags less than 5 cents very very long range like 10 10 plus meters of range and you could do phenomenal things with them but but it's primarily around counting stuff right how many things do I have what what are they, where are they? Um, but it's but it's it's primarily inventory technology. Um, there are some exceptions to that, but that's that's really the basis of this. And the technology is 20 years old, right? This this started out of the MIT AutoID center in the early 2000s. There was some early mandates from Walmart and the Department of Defense and then we kind of went into this kind of this this classic technology adoption cycle where there's the kind of this lull of dis disillusionment, right? But then this really kind of steady growth trajectory. And now where we sit today in 2025 is that the the technology is mature. It's reliable. The the tags are inexpensive. There's lots of tools out there in the toolbox and and it's becoming easier and more affordable and and it's a kind of a a clearer path to ROI than than ever before. So hopefully you'll um you'll come away with a lot of those um a lot of those things as we get through this. So a little bit around around market growth and kind of the the proof points here, right? I talked about kind of the how the technology is growing and my you know my biggest proof for throwing what I like to track really closely is the how many tags are in the market right the the more more tags that are out there the more readers that are out there the more printers that are out there the more projects that are being deployed it's really a bell weather of the health of the space and as you see on the right hand side there chart is data from the rain alliance so if you're not familiar the the Rain Alliance is an industry group I happen to sit on the board zebra is a big sponsor I'm sure there's many members on this on this call. If you're interested in hearing more about the Rain Alliance, re reach out to me afterward. I'm I'm happy to to tell you more about about what we do. But this data is is from the Rain Alliance and and it's actually a measure of of chips. So, it's the little tiny chips that are at the center of those RFID tags. And the reason we like to track those chips is just there's really only two main players. It's it's Impingention and XP and then a handful of niche suppliers. So, we get really really good market data. And I and I kind of think of it like, you know, almost like putting gas in your car. If if you don't have gas in the car, then the system doesn't run, right? If you're not consuming tags, you're not consuming chips, you don't have your items tagged, then then this industry isn't healthy, right? But what you see there is that that real that real jump up, right? Over the past few years. In 2024, we we shipped about a billion tags a week or a billion chips a week, I should say. When I say we, I mean like you know, the industry, right? Right. Collectively, this this industry, a billion tags a week. So there's a lot of stuff out there getting tagged and and as you see the market projections is that that's that's forecasted to double over the next three years. So by 2027 it's going to be a 100red billion tags um and 100 billion tags annually being consumed. It's a lot of RFID tags out there. Um kind of where where are they going? If you click to the next slide. >> Yeah, that's what I was just about to say. Are you ready for the next slide? >> Yeah. So so so where are they going? Right. A lot of them are still going into retail, but but this is data from from Avery Dennison who who makes more RFID tags and and labels than anybody in the world. Um this is data from Avery from an investor day presentation. I I always like to track kind of their their view of this. Um and those and um I I really like this chart because it's visual and it kind of shows you both where are the tags going now and and where do we expect them to grow to go in the future. And those dark red circles, right, you can see under apparel, general merchandise, just a tiny little bit in food. If you look um kind of a little bit bigger circle in logistics that that represents kind of current current shipping tags, right? But when you then there's that red circle represents kind of the the size of the prize or or sort of the addressable market within those verticals. So you see lots of growth to come in food, lots of growth to come in logistics. Um but also, you know, even apparel, general merchandise, even kind of the segments of this space that we we think of as being kind of very penetrated, right? still still a lot of lot of growth to come, right? Especially in those kind of like um kind of mid-market mid-market retail players. Um and then finally, the the other the other comment I wanted to make on this slide was was just that that path to to consumer devices, right? And while Qualcomm made an announcement earlier this year, you may have you may have seen that, but Qualcomm is is um committed to supporting RAIN RFID technology or UHF RFID technology in their uh chipsets that that drive, you know, the the the consumer handset and and in um enterprise kind of mobile devices. This happens to be a device that Zebra launched earlier this year called EM45, right? If if you didn't know any better, right? If you just if you saw this sitting on a table, right, you you just you think this was a consumer smartphone. This happens to be an enterprisegrade smartphone. But also inside this fully functional, right, RFID radio, fully functional rain RFID radio, very short range, right? We can only read me we can only read about a meter of tags at a time. It's you're not going to take inventory of a whole store with this, but it's a new tool in the toolbox to to um open up a whole another whole another set of use cases. Um and you know and that's and this is a you know I I think also um you know a little bit of a preview of of the the world to come in in a few years. You know hopefully we start to see consumer devices with this technology inside it. >> Yeah. I don't know if it's on here. Oh yeah it is. There you go. It's on your your portfolio. >> Yeah. I think we I think we we squeezed it on there. It's um it's often hard to keep this slide updated because because Zebra has so many so many kind of tools in the toolbox. The the reason I like to show this side slide is just breadth of you know whether it's from Zebra or or or Atlas right or others in the space. There's lots of tools in in our you know collective toolbox to build these solutions today. The lefth hand side that's that encompasses the the RAIN RFID technology that I've talked about. Um Zebra makes devices or all the way down to the core A6 that drive our radios to modules that go inside our printers. You see a little Gen 2X um kind of logo there. We've been working hard with In Binge lately to really enable our full portfolio to support Gen 2X extensions. Um, but you know, you you look at that in printers and overhead readers and fixed readers and handhelds and uh platform software to pull it all together. Complete toolbox of what you need to to deploy an RFID solution today kind of available to our partner network right through through great advanced specialist partners like like Atlas. Um on the right hand side you also see some of our active portfolio. We we have a legacy Bluetooth BLE beacon business. We have some active RTLS technology um notably ultra wide ultra wideband and um some 24730 it's calledet um technology. We're really not investing in that space. You you may have seen NFL if you're an NFL fan you may have seen nextgen stats on on NFL games where they are able to pinpoint kind of player motion and location. that's actually driven by Zebra's uh ultra wideband system. But but really the the focus of our advanced location technology business going forward where where we're spending our time and energy and we're really trying to grow this space is on the left hand side of this chart where you you see in the in the passive space. >> Great. Well, thank you so much Michael. Now that we have the layout of the market and the portfolio, let's kind of jump into our three types of systems. Um I will say too we are going to set the slides out after this. So, thanks Benjamin for asking that question. Um, so Michael, can you talk us through this slide about the three types of RFA systems and kind of what we're looking at here? >> Sure. So, so this is kind of how how we like to think about, you know, how we we at Zebra kind of like to think about how our how our products are used and how how RFID systems are deployed, right? On the left hand side, right, we we kind of think of those as presence or inventory systems. These are the most common in the space. They're they're it's it's really what the technology started with. And the the moniker or like the the tagline I like to use here is just count my stuff. Like you know what what do I have? How many shirts are on the wall? How how many parts are in my supply closet? Like right how many how many my IT assets do I have? You know over um it's on somebody's desk. It's just what what is it and how many do I have? That's that's the extent of kind of the presence types of use cases. They're predominantly handheld devices, right? could could be our short-range device, could be a sled, could be an integrated all-in-one. Doesn't doesn't have to be a handheld though. It could be a supply cabinet, could be a fixed reader. Um, relatively simple simple from a software standpoint. And and and I would say established, mature, relatively easy to deploy, right? There's um there's, you know, very very good um I would say paths to follow and and um kind of cookie cutter deployment strategies on on deriving ROI for presence types of use cases. And then, you know, an example user that I and I've I tried to pick on the bottom just just users or household names that people were familiar with. These are all publicly referencable, right? But you can go into a Walmart store today and see the majority of apparel items, homegood items, um general merchandise items, all all RFID tagged and their primary use case is just it's just pure presence inventory. What do I have? How many do I have? So, I don't know. Um, Stephen, maybe you want to take the next one and talk about the control points or the the the middle one kind of the state changes. >> Yeah, sure. I mean, with a control point, right, like you're exactly, you know, you mentioned state changes, right? So, we're typically seeing a system like this, um, you know, it is fixed systems where we are watching or monitoring an item transition from one area to another. A great use case would be manufacturing, which I'll kind of touch on a specific use case a little bit later on, but that's typically, you know, what we're what we're monitoring is that that work in process or, you know, maybe it's uh I noticed someone in the chat uh, you know, mentioned attendee tracking and and trying to determine, you know, if if anyone is interfacing with like an exhibit or something along those lines, right? That's typically what we're seeing uh when we say control points and status changes is those fixed systems and also a little bit more complex software that's required in those instances. >> Yeah. Right. And um the customer examples on the bottom like UPS has been very vocal in how they're using RFID to make sure they get the right package on the right truck and and we think of that as a control point in a state change being with a the time that that package moves from um kind of a sortation facility and gets put on the truck, right? that that becomes a state change. Right? Now that that now that package isn't in the sortation facility, it's on that truck that's going to your house and and hopefully, right, the truck that's going to Steven's house has the package that is that was was meant for his house, right? And it and and it and it didn't go on the adjacent truck, right? So So that's that's those those state change use cases where where now now that box is assigned to a truck and and and then in their case the in that use case the the value is around making sure they get the right package on the right truck. You know, similarly in a Target store, if you've walked in, you may have seen kind of overhead. It's Zebra's overhead readers at the exits. They're looking for state changes of of items that have left the store, right? Hope hopefully they're all paid for, right? But if they're not, then then they have the they have the visibility of um kind of what left the store. And similarly on Sam's Club, if you've been into a Sam's Club recently, you've probably seen those those exit kind of gantries, those almost kind of like tunnels that you walk through. And and those um Sam's has been very public about there's RFID technology inside there. and they're looking to to validate, you know, right? Did did you purchase the things that were in your cart and and um and has it has it left the store? >> Yeah. Do you want to quickly cover the this little portion of automated sensing and then we'll get into the individual types real fast or do you want to just jump right in? >> Sure. No, we can talk automated sensing too and and that's that's kind of like the the holy grail of this technology. Like the automated sensing use cases tend tend to be pretty complex but um you know an examples the example on the bottom I'll start with the NFL example, right? Even though it's it's not a UHF RFID technology, it's ultra wideband, but it's it's a holistic system that always on. We're we're tracking players. We're we're tracking yard line markers in some cases even the ball. And it's a holistic system of kind of every, you know, every millisecond, right? We we know where those players are, right? If you extend that into um kind of into more of an enterprise use case, maybe it's a warehouse where I'm I'm using a network of overhead readers and I'm tracking where my pallets are, where my where my forklifts are moving around that facility. Um where my did did I stage the material that's supposed to go on to the the next outbound shipment? Is that staged in the right location? So, it's it's about kind of kind of locating items. Um >> oftentimes real time, although although it doesn't doesn't always have to be real time. Um and and we've seen seen some systems and um in in retail as as well um overheads which is really about kind of perpetual always on inventory, always knowing what you have, where tags are moving, kind of that that real-time inventory use cases. I I like to think of it as kind of like control point stitched together, right? To to simplify it, right? with with a control point, I I can kind of tell what's going in and out of one door. But if I have a whole network of these things together, then I can start to stitch those together and I can draw greater insights about kind of what's going on in my business than than I could with just one of those. But um on the right hand side, that tends to be the most complex, right? And and as you'll see kind of in a slide coming up, it also we also kind of tend to see a journey of kind of starting with presence use cases, moving to control points, and then kind of bridging to automated sensing, right? it's really hard to kind of jump in jump in only on the automated sensing use case. >> Yeah. So, speaking of that, let's jump into the individual systems themselves. Um, Stephen, do you want to outline kind of the presencebased systems and kind of how you see that um in your real world expertise and kind of what that looks like? >> Yeah, sure. So, you know, with a with a basic more basic presence uh you know, based system, you know, we don't want to confuse basic with simple. we still have, you know, those those those uh environmental challenges to consider, right? Making sure we're selecting the appropriate tag for the application. Uh making sure we're selecting the right tag for the right surface, right? If it's if it's metal items or if it's apparel or if it's, you know, a plastic container, whatever it may be, right? Like the tag strategy and tag selection strategy is really important. And you know for Atlas working together with a partner like Zebra there's so many options and so many uh customizations that we can extend to accommodate your specific product right so you can you know uh you know have those same functionalities or the functionality that you need uh you know from the from the tag. Um, but you know, one of the things that I would kind of characterize a basic system, uh, you know, your most, you know, kind of lowest level system is is a system that's standalone, right? Maybe it's using a handheld reader like this RFD40, uh, device from Zebra that I have have here today, uh, and a, you know, a basic standalone software system, right? It may not require any you know low-level integration with a ERP or WMS mees you know it it is a system that uh you know is standalone like you can make business decisions in the RFAD software um and a really good use case that you know is kind of one of my favorite use cases for a standalone you know basic presence sensing system is you know one of our clients are a large online retailer and you know with fulfillment centers you know across North America and along with that they have a lot of you know handheld IT devices that they issue to their employees to you know conduct business processes right so you know we're we're tagging those items and at the end of the day I mean we're we're you know that the our customer is using RFD40 to take inventory of the items in their storoom and that software is a standalone software application they're using to do that. Uh but this one also has a fixed element too like they're leveraging RFID UHF RFID technology to as a as a loss prevention mechanism. So before these these items were are to leave the facility uh you know there's RF fixed RFID systems at the doorways. So if someone happens to have one unintentionally tucked away in a pocket or in a backpack or something along those lines or intentionally uh they're able to to monitor that uh that that loss. I'm I'm sure it's never intentionally. It's always >> No, it's never. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The other the other point I was gonna make too, Stephen, is just that it just because it's basic or or you know there are or a relatively simple system doesn't mean low ROI either. Like a lot of times the ROI on these >> on these kind of simple inventory systems can be tremendous, right? Just just as much if if not even more just just because it's it's easier. these projects are quicker and easier to deploy than than say, you know, automated sensing or a a control point. >> That's a really great point. I mean, putting in this case, you know, it's a most most tags or, you know, it's a hard tag or a metal mount label, something designed for, you know, an IT asset, right? Uh I mean, the tag may be$ two or three dollars, but we're adhering it to a $2,000 mobile computer or tablet or, you know, so it it really starts to make a lot of sense uh to reduce that loss. That's a great point. >> All right, cool. So, we're going to go to an intermediate system up next, which is our control point system. Stephen, will you walk us through this one as well? >> Yeah, sure. So, you know, like we mentioned earlier, you know, we're we're we're talking about status changes here or maybe even a location change, you know, item moving from one area to the of a of the warehouse, crosses a threshold or a read point, and now it's indicated as as in another location in in in that warehouse. Um these are you know these types of systems do typically require uh you know more integration you know with a back-end system like an ERP or WMS uh where you're actually looking at the system that you're you know used to referencing on a daily basis to make business decisions. So along with that it does require more complex RFID software that's sort of acting as a traffic cop if you will. So RFID, you know, it's non-discriminatory, right? Like it's going to read every single tag that it sees. And as you can imagine, that can kind of seem like a lot of data. So it does require a middleware software like a program like avancer, which Atlas provides to act as a, you know, a traffic cop where it's reporting data that matters to you. Uh, and you're able to make those business decisions. Um, you know, another use case that that I like to reference here is is cabinet manufacturers or millwork manufacturers that are leveraging this technology. Uh, you know, building a cabinet may be may seem kind of simple from the, you know, at face value, but there's a lot of components that go into that process. It's very much a discrete manufacturing process. So as you know a client places an order with you know a cabinet manufacturer there's a lot of components that you know are used to make that up and every component is tagged with RFID and as this order is moving down the production line we're able to monitor that production process and ensure that every component that's required for that that specific process that station is there uh for that that process to continue smoothly. >> Yeah. But I think one of the the the the biggest values that our client is seeing there is at the point of shipment, they're able to 100% verify that the items on that pallet that are getting loaded on that truck match up with the client's order. Uh so when it's delivered, the contractor has everything that they need to to install those cabinets and do it on time. I mean, I've been in a position where I'm waiting on, you know, building materials to show up. It's very expensive for, you know, me as the as the home builder, but also for the contractor, uh, you know, so and and inconvenient, uh, you know, not to mention just a poor customer experience. So, you know, them taking advantage of this technology to drive that type of experience has really helped them go next level in a lot of ways. >> Yeah, I like that. I like how you kind of tied it to the end customer kind of the business value, Stephen. Right. It's it's right. which is just, you know, if if um like if you you know, nobody wants to kind of go to go to install a cabinet system and find out, oh crap, they they shipped me the wrong color doors or like I don't have the hardware that I ordered or like right or especially if it's you know, if you got a project project timeline and you're waiting on cabinets to install tile or finish the floors or like it's just it's got to get out and stay, right? And those control point use cases are it's a great way to um >> a lot of ROI in those kinds of use cases. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. Well, he's saying that because he actually did have to wait on it for his house. >> Yeah. >> I wouldn't recommend building a house in 20. >> No. Okay. Well, up next is an advanced system. Um, Michael, do you mind walking us through an automated S sensing system? I know you've probably seen a lot in your role at Zebra. So, Sure. Give us a little bit of a of a rundown. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, so like kind of like I I I explained a little bit on the previous slide, but I like to think of these as as a series of control points that just work together and and the picture you see on the on the right hand side, that's one of our ATR readers overhead that happens to be a phased array reader that that can work in tandem with with others, right? So, it takes three readers together, but then instead of just presence or counting, like we we can actually pinpoint location. So in in this image like we can actually watch live like right where that where that forklift is and you might have a tag on the forklift, you might have a tag on the pallet, right? And you can do association types of things like did this driver pick up the correct pallet. Um maybe he's getting a work instruction on a on a on a screen in that in that um in that forklift that tells him where he should put it. like maybe the system recognizes, you know, oh, you picked up pallet number five and that's supposed to go to rack number seven across the warehouse and and here's your route to do it. And um, you know, and then and then they can, you know, kind of workflow orchestration, right, of of oh, okay, now I see you drop that pallet off over here. You're next. I see you're on that side of the warehouse, so you might as well pick up this item and get over. So, it it kind of it just it saves time. That's just that's just one example, right, of of kind of how how overhead kind of automated sensing systems are are might work in a warehouse. Um, in in a retail store, right, it's it's really all about inventory, right? All about knowing where things are and in some cases knowing knowing where they're moving to. Are they, you know, is it a is it an anomaly? Like, right, that I see someone, you know, pick up 20 pairs of expensive sunglasses and put them in their bag and walk toward the exit swiftly, right? that's um you know that's you know or like unusual buying patterns like that. So so these automated sensing systems they they can be complex from uh both a deployment standpoint and and then just kind of getting getting the right data at the right time out of it too. Like that's that's also that's also a challenge, right? The that sunglasses example that I made like that information is pretty valuable when that guy's walking toward the exit, right? It's probably less valuable when he's already in his car and down the street. Right. Right. So it's um it it it's um it it takes careful orchestration of of both the the device layers kind of that kind of what what's sensing those tags the tags themselves kind of what's tagged and then and then also just what are you going to do with the data and kind of when do you have to know kind of when do you have to have those insights to to derive the most value out of it. So, so clearly these are these are advanced systems. Um, it's an emerging segment for us in in the RFID space, but we we really expect um and and are starting to see kind of a wave of new deployments of these and and a lot of interest as as well. And the other one other drivers of of these automated systems like this too is like is may maybe you have all your items in the warehouse tagged already or like maybe you have all your tools in the shop floor tagged already. Maybe you have all your IT assets tagged already for other use cases and you're looking to get even more ROI out of the system, you know, so so um uh maybe consider an automated sensing use case like that. >> Yeah, for sure. Um I think that's great to talk about the different applications for it. And I think it's let's let's move to the next slide too so you can see that people don't have to start with automated sensing if they want to go to automated sensing like there is kind of an adoption journey. Um, Michael, talk us through the the kind of adoption journey that, you know, you at Zebra have seen throughout the years of what takes place and how it how it happens. >> Yeah. Yeah. Right. There's there's always exceptions. I mean, you know, when you try to paint a broad brush like this, there's always exceptions, right? Where there are users who who try to jump in at the top wrong of the ladder and start with automated sensing, right? But it's but it's challenging, right? That's that that's they they they've they've, you know, if you try to do that, you you set yourself up for a bigger challenge than kind of starting at the bottom and and climbing your way up. But you know at the bottom rung of that ladder right the the first thing you see there is tags right and and the tags are foundational to all these systems. I talked about that at the beginning that that's why we like to use it as a measuring stick of how well the industry is doing. Um but but it starts starts with tags. So you got to think data standards. Do it do I need to follow an EPC data standard? Can I can I use maybe it's a rain um kind of rain alliance data standard or an ISO data standard? Are there indust industry specific data standards that I should be following? Maybe it's an automotive use case or an aerospace use case where they where those um kind of industry groups have have specific numbering systems to follow. But once once you have your items tagged, right, and you've decided on a numbering system, then then the most common place to start is with with a presence use case, right? With a handheld like like we talked about at the beginning, count my stuff kind of kind of what is it? How many do I have? Right? The the next one going up is then we kind of see, okay, you move on once you know what you have and and can count it effectively. Then you look at state change kinds of things. Then you look at those control points, right? Which which tags went out of my facility, what's coming into my facility, kind of what what's what's sold, what's unsold, what's moving from a back room to a sales floor, what's moving from a supply closet to a to a work in process kind of, you know, it it kind of varies a ton based on the the vertical or use case that you're in, right? And then and then all the way up to the the full-blown automated sensing use cases like um like we just talked about in the previous slide. >> Yeah. And I just kind of add a comment here, you know, with the systems that that we've successfully deployed and the customers that that are seeing the most value over the long term with their RFID system are those that, you know, didn't despise a humble beginning, right? starting small, recognizing the value in one area and then you know scaling to other elements of their their business and identifying other areas of their business to leverage the technology. So, you know, a crawl there's, you know, a crawl walk run approach is is typically what we're, you know, what we're recommending in terms of, you know, getting your feet wet with the technology, familiarizing yourself with it, and then expanding it throughout your business as, uh, you know, you become really well verssed in what it's capable of doing as well as what it's what it's not capable of doing. So, uh, you know, this journey is is, uh, you know, kind of thinking about in that context can be really helpful for the long-term uh, success of your your RFID application. >> Yeah, I totally agree and this kind of sets us up well for our realworld examples on our next slide. Um, so this retail test case is a great example of different RFID hardware products working together to create a full solution. Stephen, can you walk us through this graphic and kind of about the retail environment in general? Um >> yeah, there's a there's a lot to unpack here. Not not enough time. Uh so I'll try my best to to nutshell this. Um yeah, so I mean retail is certainly one of the more prevalent uh use cases for for RFID and uh you know more and more we're seeing uh you know interest from I mean obviously the larger retailers but even small to midsize retailers are really looking to leverage the technology because you know items are being tagged at the point of production right so since tags are being tagged at the point of production more and more often right we're being a we're seeing them you know RFID tags in the supply chain So before it ever makes it to the retail store, you know, we're leveraging the technology for those control points, seeing it transition from manufacturing to distribution facilities, you know, uh to to the last mile to to the to in store, right? Uh and doing that all with RFID technology. When we're receiving something in the store, you know, we're not we're not hand counting. We're leveraging RFID to do the receipt. uh once it's in the store. Obviously, inventory uh you know, having the ability to take an inventory, you know, day on a daily basis if if if needed or or you know, if that's what you decide to do is possible with RFID, whereas in the past, you know, having a team come in, you know, twice a year to manually count everything, right? You can imagine that there's going to be inaccuracies if we're waiting, you know, six months to do a full inventory. Uh but with you know RFID we can do it once a week we can do it once a day and it's only going to you know it's going to you know depending upon the size of your you know your store format uh you know 30 minutes to an hour and a half if that right I mean we can take inventory of entire departments in just a few moments. Uh, so inventory is is really impactful, but I think one of the the I guess one of the um, you know, biggest reasons for for RFID in retail is ensuring that you have every size, every color, you know, represented on the sales floor uh, to ensure that you're able to make a sale that day. If you if I walk in the store and there's not a size 30 32, you know, 501 whitewash, you know, Levis's on the on the store shelf, right? like I'm not a customer that day. So, you want to make sure your sizes are represented. You can also cross reference, you know, what's on the sales floor versus what's in the stock room. So, if you have something in the stock room that's not on the sales floor, RFID can help enable you to go pull those items and get them represented. Um, you know, moving on to to to POSOS, right? Uh, and and there's a couple of different angles to take this, but at a traditional kiosk type POS, right? Zebra has released their re recently the FXP20 POS reader, right? It's a it's a tabletop device that enables you to, you know, instead of singulated barcode reads, if you have a stack of 10 items, quickly ring those things up and actually engage with the person that's at the kiosk, you know, with your sales associate versus looking down and scanning those barcodes, right? If you've been to a retail store that is enabling that is doing this now, it's a different experience. And you know, not to mention how quickly the Q-ine uh you know, people move through that Q- line, just a much better customer experience. So, moving past that to loss prevention, right? We're we're we're having like like Michael mentioned earlier uh at Target, right? Like these systems that are monitoring loss prevention. So, in the old days, we could monitor if something was leaving the store with a traditional AES system, but with UHF RFID, we can see exactly which item is leaving the store. So, we can see trends, right? if it's, you know, this particular item that's a popular popular, you know, item for theft, right? Like we can we can put extra eyes on on that area of the store. Uh if it is, you know, um stolen, like we can monitor trends across multiple stores, like is there is there uh you know, a a shoplifting ring of some sort. We can also monitor if you know uh returns, right? items coming back to the store, processing returns much more uh rapidly, but also determining 100% that that item did come from your store versus another retailer. I think that's a that's a great you like you can 100% ensure that that item you s you sold that item versus another retailer. So, and the list goes on. I mean, that's that's I try my best to kind of condense that. But >> the only You did great, Stephen. The the only thing I'd add to this is just it doesn't have to be all or nothing, right? Right. Yeah, often times we we see we see the first step is inventory, right? That's you know number number three on the list, but get get your inventory kind of under control first and then maybe evolve to fitting room or maybe you evolve to automated receiving and and you know it's you know from from there it grows. But it's you can kind of pick and choose kind of kind of um kind of which aspects of these you know and that goes for we're you know the next couple slides we're going to show you a warehouse example and a manufacturing example. It goes for those two about just you pick start start with the place that's most impactful for your business and and and grow from there. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. And I was going to say, well, maybe we just need to have one webinar on retail because obviously Stephen could just talk about retail. >> That was I mean I was kind of impressed with myself getting it condensed as well. >> Well, Michael, do you mind take us? We have warehouse and manufacturing. We're at 138. So, can you do a quick >> We promised 20 minutes, right? Yes, >> we promised 20 minutes. So, >> I'll go quick. Right. So, so simil similar view to the to the retail kind of, you know, top off top off the building kind of kind of exploded view just show showing different use cases, right? You you you might be you might you might start with inbound, right? You might start with inbound control points, know what I know what know what I unloaded off the truck, right? And you move on to a sortation use case. Maybe I took the maybe it's a cross stock facility or a 3PL or something and I'm I'm unpacking them and repacking them and moving them on out, right? So there's there's many kind of layers in between where you you might track those kind of track those boxes or pallets or containers or trays or right with whatever it is. Um you know all the way to the outbound side where you might have a control point there which you know like I talked about earlier goes going back to what you know UPS has been very vocal about is making sure I get the right package in the right truck, the right pallet on the right truck, the right container on the right truck, right? What whatever that is. But um and lot lots of lots of opportunities kind of in between that kind of inbound and outbound to to use RFID technology. >> Yeah. And I will say >> ROI for your business. >> If you haven't pulled back one of those UPS uh little labels yet, I gave Stephen one the other day. We saw our first one that was uh we just got a random package and we got had an RFD tag on it. So it's really cool to see that for UPS. Um but I'll I'll switch to manufacturing for you, Michael. I'm slowing you down. I'm sorry. >> Yeah. No, it's it's I'm I'm fun at, you know, picnics and uh and holiday events because I you know I tell them the tags look you look at the RF did you look at the RFID label that's on your UPS package and you know my >> Oh, that's what I was doing this morning with Stephen. I was like and I have this one and I have this one and >> my cousins and in-laws have rolled their eyes. We've heard it before but you know the um you know a similar similar example in in the in the manufacturing environment right you can start with inbound or right we we see a lot of work in process tracking in in manufacturing. We see a lot of kind of quality management, right? Make making sure all of my the steps of a process workflow were followed. You know, just like warehouse, we see a lot of outbound shipping accuracy. Did I did I load the the right order on the right truck? Kind of back to the uh cabinet manufacturing example that that Stephen made earlier. Um, you know, and then, you know, we didn't talk about it either, but in each one of these slides, kind of featured products kind of on the or just, you know, examples of kind of tools in the Zebra toolbox that that might fit at at different stages of these um these examples. >> Yeah. And we'll definitely send the slides out afterwards so y'all can take a look at each product and kind of where it's featured on those. But um before you jump in the QA, the quickest poll ever I'm going to add and it's just do you feel like you learned so sorry. Do you feel like you learned more in this webinar about RFD systems and how to build for scalability? How to kind of build up from that presence based to get to the automated sensing if you're ready for it. All right. And while that's going, I'm just going to go ahead and kick off the the Q&A if y'all are fine with that. Um, >> those of you that have more questions, now is the time to ask. >> Yeah. Yeah. Because we're going to answer all of them, whether it's email or or here. So, let me let me get to the very bottom. So the I think that this I know the answer to this question, but I'm going to answer it. I want to hear y'all's opinions. So the question first from Russ is we've been using ISO 18,000-6C uh he said UHC I think he means UHF RFID tags for several years. What would rain do for us? >> So you've been so believe it or not you've already been using RA technology, >> right? It's so so the the RAIN Alliance is a it's a it's a group or it's a you know it's a ST it's it's a industry organization right that promotes adoption of ISO 1806C technology right and the the analogy I like to use there is you know when you go to you know you check into a hotel you don't ask you know what what's the 802.11 you know ACX you know right you you know you don't reference the ISO standard name when you're when you're asking for the for the Wi-Fi p right you say you say what's the Wi-Fi password well I mean that's the reason that's become common is because there's a group. There's a the Wi-Fi Alliance has has promoted and and um kind of made that made made Wi-Fi the the common kind of common name to refer to the technology and and that's one of the goals of of the Rain Alliance is is to kind of develop a a common, you know, a common vernacular, a common set of set of words that's much easier to remember than the the standards mumbo jumbo that just, you know, people like me can only only people like me can remember, right? >> So, that's a great one. and plus he's in the rain alliance so he knows all of this stuff too. Um, so I'm turning David's statement into a question and I'm gonna say he said we want to use RFD to track metal piping. So can someone give a few bullet points on just some things to consider for that? Because I felt like we've had some questions about metal piping in the past. So >> yeah, I can uh take take this one. So it's a challenge, right? I mean anytime you have a metal item right it does in introduce uh you know this I mean you got to accommodate it right RFID it won't read through the metal so um you know you kind of got to think about uh primarily what tag to use and and there's a lot of different flavors of tags to use for a non-metal surface but you know there's consumable options right that are that are low cost such as lower cost such as the Silverline Blade 2 which is a very I would say our most popular on metal um you know on metal label. Um but you know thinking about you know the strategic strategically thinking about the read point how the you know where the antennas are going to be mounted to get the best read rate. Uh and then are we trying to track the pipes individually or is it at a pilot level or a bundle level? uh you know those are things that that we would need to sort of evaluate right and determine the the you know the best uh you know recommended setup for that that use case. >> And I add too is it like how long do you want to track them? Is it just you know from a if it's a like a short term like I all I want to do is make sure that it went to the right job site and got installed then maybe a maybe a label based or even a hang tag or a you know a flag tag. There's there's even lowcost ways to tag metal metal items. But if you want something durable that's going to last with the life of the pipe that maybe you want to be able to reference back to inspection data or um all right um kind of code code code compliance kinds of things, building code compliance, then then you might choose a more durable tag that can last a long time with the item with the >> with the life of the item. So there's lots of options. >> That's right. >> So I got another one. I'm going to direct this one to Michael, although Stephen feel free to add stuff, but he's the Zebra product specialist here. So, um, they asked, "Fixed readers, are they directionoriented?" And I figured you could do it. >> Sure. So, so, so fixed readers themselves or or like right at least my definition of a of a fixed reader usually doesn't include an antenna. So, so a fixed reader is kind of like it's kind of like a radio with no speakers, right? There there are some exceptions to that, right? Where where you we do have we do have fixed readers that do have embedded antennas. Um but but usually those the antennas are separate and and then you know the the question about is it directed it just it just happens to be like which way do I point my antennas right so if I you know point my antennas to to the left right I'm only going to read tags to the left my tags this way I'm only going to read them over here right and and then it's it's kind of up to the installer kind of the system design really around do I orient if I orient one tag one antenna this way and maybe my other one this way now maybe I can infer directionality based on which which one of those antennas read tag reads tags first or if it's a dock door portal, maybe I want to maybe I want to tilt those antennas to to read into the truck so I avoid um you know items that are moving past in my warehouse workflow. So, so yes, the the the antennas are directional and and really the the way that that's controlled or the the way to think about that is just good system design kind of um you know with with professional installers is the is they like like our partner Alice are are are great great ways to um to think about those use cases or to get some help thinking about that. >> Yeah. Um that I mean there are some crazy awesome things you can do with antennas and where to put them to get the locationality. So, it's it's a great question. >> Short short range, long range, there's all kinds of diversity of antennas. >> Let's see. So, I this one might be my favorite. Thank you, Jamie, for this. Although questions, you know, they're all the same, but um so when inventory is tagged at production, what are some common ways retailers are ingesting supplier RFID tag data prior to delivery? It's a great question. Oh yeah, that's a complicated one. >> Yeah, that is that's that one's pretty dense. I will say, you know, with the the GS1 standard is the typical is the typical route. So there is an encoding standard that most retailers uh most all retailers and it's certainly the recommended route, right? Data integrity is critical and have everyone playing by the same uh guidelines is really important. So, you know, that is something that, you know, the Atlas team could give you a little bit more guidance on offline because it is a pretty dense conversation. Uh, but I think that that that that is the most, you know, critical piece. You know, working with a a supplier that, you know, understands that standard, can encode the tags to that standard, print data to the tag that adheres with that standard. Those are those are really critical elements of that uh you know that >> and and GS1 has a framework of data sharing interfaces and tools and kind of best practices between suppliers and and retail partners. I I would also say Auburn University is is a great resource for for kind of ROIs and and best best practices and just just how how to think about kind of supplier retailer relationships and how to get the most out of RFID technology as well. Yeah, Auburn, go ahead. >> Yeah, I was just gonna say too, right, like you don't necessarily have to wait until your supplier is tagging. You know, Atlas can enable you to print and encode those tags yourself, right? So, you can, you know, apply those tags at your distribution facilities or maybe even in store, right? like that. The ability to to do that is is pretty, you know, it's pretty easy to achieve that, you know, internally as well without having to rely on a on a supplier to get there for you. >> Yeah. And I was going to say if you're in retail and you're on your and you haven't kind of learned about what Auburn is doing down at the university um for RFA, you should really, you know, contact us or look into it. They're they're really revolutionizing retail and starting standards and specifications to help the entire retail industry for like you know everybody and Walmart's you know a big part of it. UPS FedEx like just >> if you haven't already >> they've been doing it for a long time and uh and we're big sponsors they got all kinds of >> Oh yes definitely that's a great place to go learn about the technology. >> Absolutely. So, one question we had is, "Is there such thing as putting an RFID reader in a delivery truck?" >> Yes. >> Sure. >> Yeah. >> Go ahead, Stephen. >> Oh, yeah. Sorry. Um, yeah, definitely. Uh, and I mean, like this use case is incredibly exciting because, you know, Zebra has, you know, Michael, you and your team have really created a product that's ideal for this, right? if it's a fixed reader in the you know back of a truck right that's enabled with 5G connectivity right so uh which would be the um you know FXR90 and the FXR90 is available in a few different flavors right an integrated unit a unit that supports external antennas uh but the FXR90 is very durable uh and very capable so I mean Michael you may have some additional thoughts to add there but >> yeah um yeah like right there's there's FX90 is one one great way to do it. It can be as as simple as um you you might even start with just enabling that driver with a handheld reader to to take inventory of what do you the the back stock in the truck. We we have, you know, field service folks who are who are out there kind of fixing things and maybe have mobile inventory and then they want to know like right do I have all the all the things that I might need to finish this job at um you know that I'm heading out to or if I if I did finish a job like right if it's if you know if I'm the cable technician that comes to your house right maybe that cable company wants to know like oh did did that did that technician you know give uh give Stephen a a sweetheart deal on uh you know you know hooking him up with all kinds of stuff and you know just just walked out the back of the van like right. So there's there's an accountability sort of sort of aspect of there. Do it with field service folks. There's like mobile stock. We've um we've done things on garbage trucks where you're you're tracking um you know did I like you know you're you're incentivizing recycling or or make making sure that people have paid their bills or or making sure you you you picked up the right person's kind of trash can and not not your neighbors who maybe have a different service or there's all kinds of use cases for for mobility and and vehicle based RFID. um e even in the back of trailers, right? Even you could be even standalone standalone trailers like a lot of trailers are sophisticated with um vaccine shipments or or perishable goods or food or there's there's lots of kind of lots of use cases out there where you where you need need traceability and kind of inventory and need need to keep track of those critical items kind of in the in the back of a vehicle. >> That's awesome. Yeah. So, our next one is great too um for Stephen if you want to talk about it. They asked are there any generic software available that we could use for just basic inventory management? Yeah. So definitely we actually provide Avancer which is a highly configurable software application and it's suitable for a lot of different types of application. Inventory management being one of those elements right and uh Avancer is highly highly configurable in that you know you can start out like I mentioned at a basic level where is a standalone application where you're storing your data the data about your items and making those associations with the RFID tag. Uh and then as you progress up the adoption ladder, right, you know, integrating the system with your your back-end software platform uh to help you make those business decisions and you know, give your business a scorecard uh in terms of inventory management. So, absolutely. >> All right. So, I've got another one. This one really pertains to our topic. Um so, I'm so sorry. So, if you are trying to load cabinets out of a do out of dock doors, is it better to use transition portals or the fixed readers with antennas? I'm currently trying to incorporate RFID automatic scanning into our doc doors instead of hand scanning everything. >> I I kind of have to answer that one with it. It depends, right? You would want to So, someone else asked a great question in the chat. Does Atlas provide, you know, like a feasibility analysis? And you know that is something that that we do. But we will, you know, travel to your location and and, you know, see see with our eyes your your your specific application, what your use case is, even bring hardware with us to do testing there on site, and then really be able to write you a prescription, right? Like a, you know, a bill of materials, give you guidance on our recommendation of how to deploy that hardware, uh, and, you know, uh, provide you with, uh, you know, that in written form so you can provide that to your leadership team. Um so the answer to that question is it does depend. Uh but you know there's things to consider like tag population right like if it's a couple of tags we may not need to go as complex as like a transition point portal we may be able to achieve exactly what you need with uh uh you know with those panel antennas. The only caveat there is, you know, we want to kind of think into the future, right? Typically, when we're deploying systems, we want to think about, you know, is it going to be the same item that's transitioning through this uh, you know, dock door, you know, three, five years from now, do we need to kind of bake in some overhead into the system? So, as things change, you won't have to just reinvent your system in the next two to three years. So, um, so yeah, I mean that that's something that we could evaluate and we'll follow up with you offline to to engage with you to help you with that that level of guidance. >> And and that's where just like I was going to say site surveys come in, right? It's, you know, there's nothing there's there's nothing replaces just having having expert eyes with who have RF deployment system kind of look look at your environment and and make recommendations. And I I think Stephen, you hit on all the right points just like how how many tags are in the in the vicinity? Are there adjacent tags? there's street tags you're worried about. Are they items? Are they pallets? Like there's there's so many things to think about. It really it really just um kind of professional site survey is is is the right way to think about um the right thing to consider when you try to make that decision. >> Okay, so we got another one and this one is maybe since uh Michael knows so much more or knows a little bit more about other types of advanced location. This is a question about 5G enabled tags. So are there 5G enabled tags that can triangulate using the 5G towers? I've seen prototypes in the past. I'm wanting to check if there's mature technology in that area. >> Yeah, that that's called your cell phone. So, right the um and and and so so so I mean yeah, there there's there's labels where they where they have lowc cost or or they have lowc cost, you know, 5G or like cellular enabled labels. They they'll have a printed battery on them or maybe it's a coin cell battery. They tend to be quite expensive though. I mean, they're those are like, you know, tens of dollars. Um they they exist. I I've seen pretty good ROI on on and some some reasonable use cases I think for very very critical shipments like you know organs or like just highv value pharmaceuticals just like really really important irreplaceable stuff. Uh I I would say those those types of things are are uncommon and and if if you're thinking about that like just really make sure that it's necessary for the use case and that there's not a not a simpler solution. That's that'd be my >> And to to add to that, if you're looking for a geographical location of an asset, you know, we have clients that are tying an RFID tag read together with GPS coordinates, so they can see, okay, this is this is the actual location where this this item was was was previously fed. Um, so so that's just kind of a consideration, right? you may not have to find, you know, go go locate like a really expensive technology that's going to enable that or, you know, recreate the well with a new technology to achieve that. And >> we have a couple questions in the chat about tracking cattle. So, what I I'll read this one off. We like to try track cattle on multiple farms. What are the best tags to try to achieve this? And is there any sort of application you've heard of to kind of track the details? And that kind of follows up with Eric's questions about evaluating size, health, weight, etc. >> You me to take that one? So so so traditionally animal tracking or or you know um livestock has been an LF technology. So low low frequency 125 kHz tags. There's there's mature Zebra does not provide those, right? That that's a that's a different um that's a different different frequency. Um very still RFID, right? You're still still counting you still count my stuff, right? count my cows or like right but um but very different very different technology uh it it's not an area that that I would say we're focused on. I have seen some deployments of of UHF or RA RFID in those types of those types of environments, but but I think it's it's also you got to consider like if it's not broken, don't don't fix it. Like right at the the LF LF solutions are mature and work and and I I'm not really sure what the driver is to to think about UHF in that space over over an existing low frequency tag that's already common place for for livestock. >> What about you? >> Yeah. Yeah. And you know like the the the tagging is typically the most challenging aspect, right? Um of livestock tracking and there are a few UHF options that do exist that work really really you know well um but I I guess you know that's something that we can follow up with you again uh posteinar because we do have a couple of clients that are leveraging uh UHF to to track to track their livestock. So um so it's possible. >> All right. And with that one, I just want to tell everybody thank you. Thank you to Stephen. Thank you to Michael. Um I know they're both super busy, so thank you for joining us on the webinar. If we didn't get to your questions, we will email you and reach out with the answer. Um so expect that here within the next week. Um thank you everybody for attending. We really appreciate it. And if you have any other suggestions on webinars in the future, please don't hesitate to reach out to us and let us know. Um but thank you Stephen and thank you Michael. >> Thank you. >> Yeah. Thank you to the Atlas team for hosting. It was a pleasure. >> All right. Thank y'all. Bye.
